Our previous parts have reminded us that Jehovah's creation, of flowers and food and colors,
all demonstrate that Jehovah wants us to be happy, to be joyful.
Well, in this part, we're going to see that Jehovah designed our bodies in a way that shows
that he wants us to be happy as well.
Now, Jehovah designed us with the amazing capacity for motion.
A humans can walk, we can run, we can swim, we can dance.
In fact, if you turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 17 and verse 28,
you will see that this is a God-given ability.
Acts chapter 17 and verse 28.
For by Him we have life and move and exist.
This word here move refers to the ability from Jehovah for us to be active.
But with that in mind, we have two questions.
One is, are there lessons that we can learn from how Jehovah designed us that can help us to rejoice?
And number two, are there lessons that we can learn that can help us in our worship of Jehovah?
Well, let's consider those two points.
But first, let's watch the following video that will help us appreciate the marvelous way in which we were designed.
Our bodies are designed to move.
The way we move can be complex or precise.
It could require strength or stamina.
Walking involves the coordination of dozens of muscles.
Muscles are controlled by our brain and nervous system.
They support and move our bones and are powered by the food we eat and the oxygen we breathe.
Everybody part is a marvel of engineering.
The knee is designed to withstand repeated impact, surrounding tissue cushions and aligns it.
Finding suggests that regular movement helps prevent joint damage.
The body is a machine that strengthens as we use it.
Movement helps us to stay healthy and feel good.
The body is a credit to its creator.
For by him, we have life and move and exist.
The makeup of the human body proves that Jehovah wants us not just to exist, but to be happy.
But do you remember our first question?
What lessons can we learn? Well, there's two of them.
One, as the video highlighted, Jehovah designed our bodies to move.
Did you note the comment? Movement helps us stay healthy and feel good.
Research has established that leading a physically active life can help us to think clearly, to feel happier.
Have more energy. Be more productive.
What an incredible gift from Jehovah. He created us to move.
And also, he created us in a way that the more we move, the more we exercise, we work, we do things for others,
the happier we are.
And the second point is that Jehovah designed our bodies with many different parts, but to work as one unit.
Did you notice the coordination needed just to walk? Something we take for granted.
And what about our knee?
Can you imagine if our knee did not work in harmony with the rest of the body?
What if every time we stood up, we weren't sure which way it would bend?
How complicated that would be.
But no, Jehovah created our bodies to work as one complete unit.
And did you notice also the video stated that our body is like a machine with many different moving parts, but it all works together.
But a unique difference between a machine and our body is that our body strengthens as we use it.
Now, you think about that. If you go out and you buy a car, you buy a bicycle, you may think that's a successful purchase.
If it operates as intended, but you would never expect that car or bicycle to improve and go stronger every time you use it.
But that's what happens to our body.
And that allows us to exercise, walk, run, swim, dance, even more.
And the more we move, the happier we are.
What an incredible design. How we appreciate our bodies is wonderful gift from Jehovah.
But remember our second question.
Are there lessons that we can learn from the body that can help us to be happy in our worship of Jehovah?
Well, let's consider those same two points again.
Remember we said that Jehovah designed our bodies to move.
So what should we do?
Well, let's look together to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 58.
1 Corinthians 15, 58.
It says, therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast and movable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord,
knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.
So what do we need to do?
Move, stay busy, have plenty to do in the work of the Lord.
And Jehovah gave us further reason for rejoicing by giving us meaningful work to do.
Now, many of you dear brothers and sisters have said that you've never felt busier than you do now.
Do you think that's a coincidence?
Do you think it's a coincidence that the darker and more depressing these last days have become
that you are busier than ever in Jehovah's work? No!
See, that is one of the ways that Jehovah uses to help us to be happy and healthy in these last days.
Now, we know that our primary work is that of preaching the good news of the kingdom.
And we do that through the house to house preaching work, we do that through public witnessing, through Bible studies.
But even when this work is restricted due to world events, we still find ways to preach.
And when we have plenty to do in the work of the Lord, in the preaching work, we're happy and we're better able to put our troubles into perspective.
Now, others of you support the kingdom work by serving at Bethel or by constructing and renovating theocratic facilities,
others of you sharing relief work, but whatever you do, it brings joy and it brings glory to Jehovah.
So here's a question.
Are you staying as busy as you can in your circumstances allow in Jehovah's work?
Continue to have plenty to do in the work of the Lord. You'll be happy and you'll never regret it.
But now, our second point, we also establish a Jehovah designed our body with many parts to work as one unit.
Well, what lesson do we learn from that?
We'll look over to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 16.
Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 16.
And it says, from him, all the body is harmoniously joined together and made to cooperate through every joint that gives what is needed.
When each respective member functions properly, this contributes to the growth of the body as it builds itself up in love.
So what do we learn from this?
Stay united, cooperate together, function properly.
We learn that every part of the human body is necessary and it must work together.
Well, similarly, the congregation is made up of many different members.
Each member, each of you, whether young or old, strong or frail, all of you contribute to the whole and the beauty of the congregation.
Each one of you is needed. You are special to Jehovah and your brothers and sisters.
And did you see when the congregation is harmoniously joined together, what happens?
The congregation is built up.
Now, again, many of you have said that you've never felt closer to each other or Jehovah's organization than you do now.
Again, that's no coincidence.
As the end draws near, Jehovah's gathering us closer and closer together in unity and those bonds among us need to grow even stronger.
So how much we appreciate and how much we can learn from the wonderful way in which we are made.
May each of us, and remember those two points, be determined to be as active as possible, move in Jehovah's service,
and two, may each of us do all that we can to promote unity.
And if you do, you will be happy.
And not only will you bring joy to yourself, but you'll bring joy to others as well.
But now, Brother Gaius Glockentine, a helper to the publishing committee will now present the next talk of this symposium,
Creation proves that Jehovah wants us to rejoice delightful sounds.